IMPRISONMENT, &c. OF DR. ACHILLI. 16

village of the Republic. It is in this manner that the Lord announces His entry here, where, till now, His greatest adversary has reigned. The Bibles that I brought with me from Leghorn are already, for the most part, distributed, and no day passes in which some persons do not come to me for them. While I am writing these words, two Franciscan friars enter my room to ask for a Bible, which I promised them yesterday. We spoke together on those words of St. Paul, "that Christ is made unto us of God wisdom, righteousness, sanctification, and redemption."

The good friars have promised to read every day a chapter of Holy Scripture with thanksgiving and prayer.

Every morning, when I leave the house, I take with me a New Testament, and I now it has never happened that I have brought it back again. Some of those to whom I have given it, carry it about with them to read with their friends, and on each verse they make their reflections. I have more than once myself seen these little religious meetings in a coffee-house, and one of those was held about a chapter; and a friend of mine told me that he was present in a tobacco-shop, while this exercise was held about a chapter; and a friend of mine told me that he was present in a tobacco-shop, while this exercise was going on, and that a peasant, who was present, and who heard the errors of the Church of Rome exposed, presently said, "Is this really the Word of God? Then, why do they prohibit our reading it?" I gave the New Testament some time ago to a mechanic, and I learn that he reads a chapter every day with his family, and that he thinks this is the true mass, told me yesterday, that he reads a chapter every day with his family, and that he thinks this is the true mass, which we should celebrate every day.

The Bible also begins to be read in some of the convents in the monasteries, in families, in shops; and I hope also to see it read in the streets. I have begun to send many copies of the "New Testament" to prison, and to those places it is much desired. I now propose to print certain tracts which I have composed, and I am certain that this work of God will, in the meanwhile, accompany this many wish to possess our suggestions and instructions. I have some truly zealous companions, who lose no oppor-