PRIESTS—BIBLES READ—POPULAR REASONINGS. 17

tanity of speaking of Jesus Christ. For this object we go into the houses, we frequent shops (especially the cafés), and we always find work in every place. The means which the providence of God has employed to make the Gospel to be loved and desired, is the opposition of the priests of the new Government of the Republic. Those priests are the people united. . . . Neither is political reasoning of the people. . . . My kingdom is not of this world." He who has said this, believes with Jesus Christ that "the things which are God's" should not clash with those who are "the things of Caesar," and who put obstacles in the way of those who are ministers of the civil Government, and, least of all, that they should wish to be meddling with those who are priests of our visible world.

Now, all these ministers of the civil Government are real ministers of God; consequently, they are not the opposing, in every way, of ours: this first reasoning and opposition of priests. From this they are not free in many consequences. "By their worldly exterior, and the Spiritual state they have abused previously since they employed the means for an entirely common end. Therefore they are a worldly race, in the mask of a sacred dress. But a worldly race cannot likely administer heavenly things; therefore, they are purely from earthly interests, to have lied in the things of God. Let us examine in what points they have lied. Let us search, to understand."

Our people are naturally religious, and the principle in the inhabitants is Christianity. That world has a very great power over their minds, and one shows them that by his doctrine taught by Jesus Christ and preached by his Apostles. At often, then, as by Christianity they come to the inspiration of a contrary spirit, they urge readily some article of their belief—if this is allowed by the Bible. The Divine of his Apostles, which they trust, the teachings of Christ and his Apostles—if this is approved, they are ready to correct and reform themselves. The mistrust in which