LETTER TO PIUS IX. 171

the present state of religion in Italy, that country with which you are most closely connected. Where is now to be found among us that firmness of faith, that sincerity of holiness which works by love, that Christian life which was the life of our ancestors? When we look for Christianity, piety in all those who follow the teaching of your priests, one single band meets our eyes, the Catholic clergy, and a few isolated Christians who have kept themselves separate from the influence of Rome. Must we then say that, having banished Jesus with the Gospel, the priests of Rome have put themselves in his place, and that, instead of the law of God, they have substituted their own traditions, their own interests, their own passions? We must say it, because it is the truth. The Catholic clergy, instead of being an example to the people, have become a stumbling-block and a scandal. They have forgotten that the rule of the individual spirit has been substituted for the authority of the Church, and that, in consequence, they are no longer anything but a sect. Thus, not distinguishing the work of man from that which is of God, viz., pure Christianity, they have rejected everything alike, and live the life of infidels. On the other hand, the people, who receive implicitly all that is taught them—to whom all is good which is told them by the priests—who call sacred whatever emanates from Rome, run after saints and the Virgin, relics, images, and indulgences; and, thinking little or nothing about Jesus Christ, walk in darkness and the shadow of death.

Within these two classes is comprised, generally speaking, all the Christianity of Italy; and to this unsoundness is to be referred the religious immorality, the want of energy of mind, the absence of virtue and of union among our citizens. "The Church, which divides the races with immaterial frontiers, was three centuries ago the principle of that moral unity which has disappeared with its doctrines." Even more than with its practices, is this the case, on the banks of the Arno, which demoralizes the people with its priests. "The Church, revealed to the world the wicked proposition which I would echo in the ears of all the Italian people, raise aloud to heaven, and which, with all the strength that is in me, I hurl at Rome and its masters: The Church is the ruin of Italy." Yes! from the Church, or rather from those who call themselves the Church, proceeds all that series of