Need I remind you of all the other inventions by which you have deceived the people, making them believe that you have found them in the Scriptures, while they are, moreover, the offspring of constant tradition within the Church? The people, having now learnt to read, and the Bible in their hands, look for it and find it not. Where, then, is it? Is not a word of your doctrines in the Gospel, not a single precept for near commanders of the Church, the Sacrament? Not even the very name of Apostles? For it appears they did not in early times give themselves that title, assuming it later on, as we know by the Acts and their own epistles. They found it more opportune than followers, so that even to-day, the factions into which the people are divided, each aspires to reduce its opponents to followers, no one ever venturing to find that doctrine of prelacy. The people seek in the Bible the famous promise of Christ, who brought life and immortality to light, with the double eternity of rewards and punishments, neither himself nor his Apostles ever mentioning purgatory.

You send them to read Maccabees. But the people, who are not wanting in sense, ask themselves: Is the Book of the Maccabees, and Jewish Judaic teaching, to teach the Christian people what Jesus Christ did not teach? Of what value then are the books of Maccabees? Their priests, having obliged to reply that it is one of the apocryphal books, what is the value of that Book of Maccabees? The conscientious priest is obliged to reply that the Hebrews, from whom we are bound to receive faithfully the books of the Old Testament, by Christ's order, received by the languages, never quoted, either by Christ or by His Apostles, only inserted among the sacred books by the Council of Trent, to whom it was objected as apocryphal by the learned, and consequently not received in the ancient Catholic doctrine of purgatory. So the wisest Catholic doctors still admit that for the two centuries after Christ the Church did not believe in purgatory. Of course, the Scriptures pronounce: Your sins are forgiven you. But you say: No, not all, for there is purgatory, however imaginative the mind which saw so many other things nonexistent, was the first to invent and preach purgatory. Towards the end of the second century, Tertullian, an African mind, the first to speak of purgatory; towards the end of the fourth century, Augustine, another African mind,