SECOND LETTER TO GREGORY XVI.

spoke more decidedly both of prayers, and of a sort of suffrages for the dead. However others choose to do so, shall we rely on the authority of an Augustine, even one which is to be lighted up at the final destroying fire, through which, then, and not previously, souls shall pass? This theory is perhaps equal value with his theory about the Antipodes, whose existence that learned man denied!

And as with this, so with all the other dogmas which, since the time of Gregory VII., have originated in the Church of Rome. Is the Christian Church bound to receive the wicked inventions of the Council, proposed and sanctioned by him in the Lateran Council (1215)? Shall she adhere to his fabulous dogma of transubstantiation, invented by the heretic Eutychus, unknown in the first ages, and powerfully contra-dicted by Pope Gelasius? (De Duab. Christ. Natur.) Can she abide by that impious doctrine that the sacrifice of Christ, offered once for all as full satisfaction even to the end of the world, should be renewed every day by hundreds, by thousands, by hundreds of thousands of priests, who say that they are author-ised to offer it, both for the living and the dead? Which of the Apostles, Paul loudly condemns in his epistles, and which Moses, too, to which the whole Bible is opposed? Most er-ror to make use of anything but the simple commemoration of the elders, or bishops, or the first centuries, ever allowed himself to celebrate, or his successors, that sacrifice which you unbloody, which you celebrate in a thousand masses and altars at once? Is that Supper of the Lord, now the agnes of error and ignorance with which you have clothed it, the carnal error from that idea of the Divine food, instituted by the body and blood of Christ, which are con-tained spiritually in the substance of the bread and wine, but not materially and physically, as you assert in the oath which you make us take? But firstly, with that simplicity with which it was celebrated by the first bishops and elders of the Catholic Church, we will come willingly to receive it at your hands. Celebrate it, to its extent, and the people will approach the Eucharistic table, to feed on the Divine bread, and to drink the Divine cup. But that