intercession of Jesus Christ. But to lay aside errors and superstitions one of them, we must be good Christians, observed one. We have been sufficiently degraded by the teaching of our priests, and it is through their fault that we have confused things Divine and human, truth and falsehood. To be faithful to God and believers in His Christ, we must, therefore, purify our religion from all that is not true Christianity. Some one, and that which has till now rendered us slaves, is not Christianity but the Papacy; that the Pope has wickedly called himself the Vicar of Christ, while he has been the first to transgress the precepts of the Gospel; that we must not believe in the priests, who teach us things which are not found in the Gospel of Christ. And our confreres, in short, that we must return to the faith of our forefathers. I made my comments and additions to that, and said how, when religion was enjoyed, these observations were holy. Imagine, then, I pray you, the Christian life was, and how it will be when it shall be restored.
(Dr. Achille then describes the excitement produced in Rome by the prospect of hostilities, and the general arming. He adds :-) In this war I shall be with the arms of a little corps which will fight courageously with the captain who will fight with the captain who will lead us. We enter into the enemy's camp—we bring thither the houses of prayer, and our camps will be arms better than cannon and the brethren will turn out to combat at the safety of the Republic meeting. Meanwhile, we have determined that, besides the lectures which are held in my house on Sunday and Thursday evenings, we shall go, in some of these families, and hold familiarly the Holy Scriptures, with prayer and the singing of the Psalms. In our other vacations, we have gone to the houses of my friends in the evenings, and I do not go there. Two already began, even though a prayer at the end. Many of my friends have left Rome. For the present, I shall not tell you their names,