led us to a painful internal struggle; the temptation was strong; and, after talking over the matter for some time, we each, in private prayer, laid the matter before the Lord, and then resumed the discussion. We could not but feel that bribery was, in our name, the act we had contemplated; but still, the case was so grave, that we could not lay aside this almost certain chance of saving our brother, without scrutinizing to the very bottom its real character. We came to the conclusion, for the love of God and ourselves, that the proposed means would be sinful, because it would involve the violation, for the sake of money, of a man's conscience; and we then dismissed, tending feelings from our minds, and idea which in our eyes, by the object to be gained. But the safety of our friend, so innocently imprisoned, was the next only to be regarded! The means worthy of that Gospel for which he suffers! This truth is clearer than ever to our eyes after all the struggle; and, moreover, we are persuaded that were he himself refuse to escape from his lot, however cruel it might be, by means which should not be openly avowed. We place ourselves, therefore, and him, in our Father's hands; at the same time, should we see other means of effecting his escape, we shall gladly avail ourselves of them.

WEDNESDAY, Nov. 28.—Mr. Tonna waited on us with this passage:—

"Every Christian, conscious of the dignity of his character, and of the high importance of his principles, will feel it his duty to maintain a constant warfare against every thing which tends to debase the human mind, or to injure the interests of morality and religion. He will, therefore, be careful to avoid all such amusements as are calculated to excite the passions, or to weaken the principles of virtue. He will shun the theatre, the card-table, and the ball-room, as places where his mind is in danger of being corrupted, and his heart of being alienated from God. He will be equally careful to avoid all such books and conversation as have a tendency to undermine his faith, or to pollute his imagination. He will be sober, temperate, and chaste; and he will endeavour, by his whole conduct, to adorn the doctrine of God his Saviour in all things."

Mr. Petre, a curious office or post, created by the British Government; nominally attached to the British Embassy at Florence, but virtually the embodiment of our diplomacy at the Court of