Commissioner of the Inquisition has given the strictest orders that I should see no one, that I should have no communication in writing with any one; and they have, besides, recently added new instructions as to my treatment in prison, so as to make it more painful. Nevertheless, they have found the means for me to write these two letters to you, and to my very dear Mr. Tonnia, after which I shall not be able to write again, unless my libera- tion should be obtained during the month of October. I am now, provisionally, in the Castle of St. Angelo, under strict custody, until the prisons of the Holy Office shall be repaired, in order that I may be transported in the coming month, the Inquisition being already preparing the charges against me. These things I was bound to tell you, at the request of the faith that we mutually profess; and this is (if I confess the truth) what I love and seek through Jesus Christ revealed to us by the love of the brethren. It is into your hearts to do for me all that, through the Word of life revealed to you, you do also through the Lord Jesus Christ, the love of whom I have begun to announce with you, knowing, I am glad to bear witness, that the anxiety of this letter which you surely will deem acceptable and send you, but bear fruits to life eternal, lay aside a portion of your spend on other forward the cause that I plead. Not perish, you leave to the spiritual treasures that do not perish. Go that you may defeat the machinations God has granted the earthly means that the providence of enemy, and so that the Gospel of Christ may not in this manner be persecuted. I also exhort you to raise your supplications to the throne of all grace, and to the Father of all mercy, which we bear, able to grant, that the name of His Son may be favour- may be glorified on this earth. Your prayers will give you wisdom and courage to free me from the hatred and the wicked designs that the sons of perdition conceive against me, for the destruction of the truth and of that liberty of