LETTER TO PIUS IX.

conducted with harmony, in order to preserve the union of the Christian Churches; and although each presses over his own without an equal authority, nevertheless they hesitate to act without you, and they expect your self to set this work in motion and to be its guide.

Yes, Holy Father, the reformation of doctrine is the serious business to which you and your brethren are called by all Christians. Upon the purity and holiness of the doctrines of the Church depend the piety and holiness of the lives of all men in proportion. There is nothing that God has shown more mercy upon from the beginning, in order that he might have the glory of all, than that, seeing that the doctrines of God are not contained in a single book, and doctrines opposed to the second Council of Nice, to those which are venerated, which are the precepts taught in primitive times with those of the Decretals? Have you ever examined together the dogmas of all later ages and those of the primitive Church? If you have, you should shudder at the result. I have compared them, and have found that ever have been introduced into Christianity so many novelties and things repugnant to the ancient faith, the pure creed of our fathers.

Strip yourself, then, of that fatal prepossession that your predecessors were holy and infallible. Examine carefully the sources of the existing belief. Observe what is from God, and what proceeds from man. Man has erred in presenting to the multitude things of Divine substance but in a figure, and instead of preserving the consistency due, has not refrained from changing the Divine ordinances into human traditions. Hence, in the Holy Spirit, the minds of those who believe the Holy Scriptures, not with the wisdom of the flesh, but with the wisdom of God, have begun to doubt whether the Divine Word is contained in its integrity in the books which are received as canonical. And although the Church has grown up in them, such a that the desire for change is no longer to be recognised,