LETTER TO PIUS IX.

his own flock, and each independent of the other. For my part, you should have my vote to be bishop of all Italy were all the other bishops removed; but if you will rightfully co-exist, they may, too, still exist; but in accordance with the Bible. Titular elders, call them priests, if you cannot; but as for Deans, they are contrary to the Bible; nor has any one of them any ministry whatever, at least, not lawful, to the Church and to the Gospel, unless your Theologians may say repugnant to them that the Word of God means by the Church the priests only. Let them then, explain for us the Church to mean people. You know well that the Bible, do we mean the Christian people. It is contrary to piety that what has been usurped should be restored. Do you believe that Holy Father, to consider well, for a moment, this point, which is at present of the highest importance? Do you then, be persuaded to restore to the people their right? Do it, and by your means the Church will resume its ancient rights, and you will see that according to the Bible, the Latin language which you now perceive as a scoff, or the Latin Church? Do priests of the Latin people appropriate the property to themselves and to the Church of private property, declaring themselves princes and governors, and the people subjects and slaves to make it their private? It was a chastisement not unlike that which God sent in the valley of Siddim, which was to reach to Heaven. And this famous Shower, which daring men set themselves to build the tower, is in the spiritual power, intended to them in raising themselves into a built God, Sacerdotalism by the people, with the priests that rebelled and were conjugated with the people, so that, rebelling the priests were, that with which the part of confusion and the ancient language unintelligible to the people, remained, ribeling the people, Gospel abolished they had Christ's law, at variance with the name of Christ, oppressed, outlawed, tortured people; a large and associated crimes, which lastly mounted up to the throne of the Omnipotent, provoking the infliction of condign punishment, —such crimes as prayers addressed in the temple to saints