LETTER TO PIUS IX.

many well make them tremble. Their roaring was like the waking up of nature, indicating a grand change in the face of the world. The people have declared that the times are gone by when they would submit to be bodily governed by their own affairs. Now, and that they, the people, are arbiters in their pretended masters; we, more than all others, have been justified to their cause. Now, therefore, to enlighten them, to console them, to cause them to be to us, priests, are specially bound, which is the first thing they need. It behooves us to assist and protect them. Let us unite with them in the true religion of our forefathers. Let us go with them against those who have combined to treat them with that holy sign which our religion has consecrated. When God extinguished our Latin language, he meant thereby to punish the priests, and not the people. Let us submit to that punishment. The Latin language has corrupted the truths of the catholic Church, and therefore God has extinguished it. Let us then arise again in the Italian language, and let this be the Church of the apostolic times! Thus, then, can we recover the people; thus unite them to us; thus alone, can we priests, become again useful to the people; that is, teach them, because the use of our sacred nature of language that the Church of the people is not in the priests being only the ministers of the people. It should be other than the language of the language. Italian is our language, and Italian must necessarily be our ritual.

Will not you, Holy Father, serve us as bishop? Gladly would many who are now alienated from the Church for they will have no cause to oppose, and having it, Jesus Christ would return to reign in unity and concord, just as it is written, "There will be one fold and one shepherd." Oh, what a sight to see this "Holy Church," now Christianity, thus broken up, dwell together in peace! England, separated from other Churches which are at present divided from the Italian Church, and would remove everything which separates us from her, Rome, would be again united with us in one faith. Nations would be drawn together in the bonds of brotherhood. And you, Holy