TO THE MEMBERS OF

might lead persons to expect a more graphic description of the present state of Rome than I am able to furnish. While the general sheet goes to press, Dr. Achilli has not reached Eng- land; and even when he does land, he will relate himself, far better than I could do at second hand, the history of his un- happy country, both religious and secular, during the year 1849.

I beg you, therefore, to accept, as it is, the unpretending publication which I now present to you; making allowances for the circumstances under which it appears, and especially for my anxiety to lose as little time as possible in meeting the general demand for information.

I take this opportunity of publicly expressing the obligation under which all the friends of religion and of freedom are laid to His Excellency the Marquis of Normanby, our Ambassador at Paris, as well as to Mr. Freeborn, our Consul at Rome. His Excellency, with a promptitude and energy which do him honour, exerted all his influence in behalf of Dr. Achilli; and I trust it will not be wrong to add, that Mr. Freeborn, our Consular Agent at Rome, whose efforts have been indefatigable, deserves our warmest acknowledg- ments. Those who have followed with attention the course of events at Rome, will readily believe that, but for the humane and persevering exertions of these gentlemen, and the noble firmness of those who have claimed our gratitude, from the Lord Palmerston, then Minister for Foreign Affairs, to Mr. Freeborn, Dr. Achilli, as far as the powers concerned with the respect due to the independence of nations permitted, would in all probability have fallen a victim to the relentless malice of the Roman Court.

These late events at Rome, with the respect due to the memory of the late Pope, and the position of the present Pope, Pius IX., are of such peculiar interest, that I cannot but make a brief mention of them. The Pope, Pius IX., on his accession to the Pontificate, in 1846, commenced his reign with professions of liberal principles, and with acts of clemency and kindness, which excited the admiration and gratitude of his subjects, and the hopes of the friends of freedom throughout the world. He granted an amnesty to political offenders, relaxed the severity of the censorship, and promised to introduce reforms into the government. These measures were received with enthusiasm by the people, and for a time it seemed as if a new era had dawned upon Rome. But the Pope's liberal policy soon met with opposition from the Cardinals and other members of the hierarchy, who saw in it a threat to their power and privileges. The Pope, yielding to their influence, gradually abandoned his reforming measures, and returned to the old system of despotism and intolerance. This change of policy produced great disappointment and discontent among the people, and led to the outbreak of the revolution in 1848. The Pope was forced to flee from Rome, and a republic was established. The republic, however, was short-lived. In 1849, a French army, under General Oudinot, besieged and captured Rome, and restored the Pope to his throne. Since his restoration, the Pope has pursued a reactionary policy, and has shown himself to be as hostile to liberty and progress as any of his predecessors.

The case of Dr. Achilli is a striking illustration of the persecuting spirit of the Roman Church. Dr. Achilli was formerly a Dominican monk, and held a high position in the Church. But he became convinced of the errors of Romanism, and embraced the Protestant faith. For this he was persecuted by the Church, and was finally imprisoned in the Inquisition. He escaped from prison, and fled to England, where he has since resided. The Roman Church has never ceased to persecute him, and has made repeated attempts to get him into its power. The recent attempt to kidnap him is only one of many instances of the relentless malice with which the Church of Rome pursues those who dare to question its authority.

The case of Dr. Achilli is not an isolated one. It is only one of many instances of the persecution which the Church of Rome has inflicted upon those who have differed from it in opinion. The history of the Church of Rome is a history of persecution. From the earliest times down to the present day, the Church of Rome has persecuted those who have dared to oppose its doctrines or its authority. The Inquisition, the massacre of St. Bartholomew, the persecution of the Waldenses, the Albigenses, and the Huguenots, are only a few of the many instances of the persecuting spirit of the Church of Rome.

The Church of Rome is still the same persecuting Church that it has ever been. It is true that it does not now resort to the same open and violent methods of persecution that it formerly employed. But it still persecutes by means of its influence over governments, by its control of education, and by its social and political power. The Church of Rome is the enemy of liberty, of progress, and of truth. It is the duty of all who love liberty and truth to oppose its influence and to resist its encroachments.