PRAYER-MEETINGS—TRACTS—PROSPECTS. 21

because they now desire only to be known to God. Two others are occupied in the press; and in the New Testament which is going through the correction of the circulation of the Bible we have some of those tracts published at Flo- rence, which we have had in it, because I wish to make you the first and of. . . I have begun my tracts. I send you somewhat more full and copious; and I purpose having a trial with this, and to see the impression it makes on the public. To-day, I have sent a second to the press, which treats of absolution, and against the opposite errors of the Papal system. I will send you them weekly, on the truths of Christianity, which will be published as they come out. That which is now being printed, is aimed against auricular confession, and I assure you it will excite a great commotion amongst the priests, but it will do much good amongst all those who love the most important doctrines of Scripture. I have been thinking of publishing a little book which should point out passages of the Gospels, because it would be the best and most useful of all tracts. This would make men study the Holy Scriptures, and find therein all that is most important to be known. Since the Lord has opened to us this door, which seemed to be for ever shut, we must enter full of courage, and endeavour to do more. He would have us do even that more freely. However, the contrary is possible: the door may again be shut. Time must, therefore, not be lost; we must do as much as we can, that the adversary of Christ may not again find things as he left them, nor that people continue to say to me, "How is it possible that we have been able to live till now in such ignorance, and in the state of ignorance of which he has hitherto taken advantage from us?" If such errors, then, take away this ignorance, and this belief of the faith that, "No one shall die by means of that Word," we must then take away this ignorance, and away from us the errors. The Lord send us by means of His Word, the faith that no one shall die by means of that Word. Much can be done by word of mouth, and especially by publication.