IMPRISONMENT, &c. OF DR. ACHILLI.

of about 1,000 men, was only ten miles from Rome. A body of our troops went to meet them, and routed them. Yesterday evening there entered Rome several prisoners, with two cannons and many carts full of arms and baggage. To-day there had remained on the field after their flight, two other cannons and many carts. The city of Rome is very well fortified; within the walls it is full of barricades, and though its siege is almost impossible, because of the great extent of the walls, yet it has been thought well to provide regular troops to man them. Our soldiers, what between volunteers and the line, may be considered more than 30,000 men, to which may be added a crowd of people, some armed with guns, others with pikes and other terrible weapons. The enthusiasm for the defence of our rights is at the highest pitch. All the cities of the State, as well as the capital, boil over against the invasion and in protecting and arming themselves. All our destiny is in God's hands. It is in Him that we put our confidence. He will aid us in the midst of all the noise of the storm. In this state of affairs I constantly have the voice of the Papal affairs, which increases every day, augmenting the political and religious anarchy. The churches are empty of people. The Pope which speaks of God, that is hatred of the people, and uses for making the barricades; the monasteries are used for being deserted. A little moment suffices; very few priests are longer say mass; the confessionals are deserted. In the midst of this confusion, I am assigned to the priests, while their revenues are taken by the Government. In the midst of this confusion, I lend my ear to listen to and see around me. I go my rounds, and every one is rejoiced to see Jesus Christ still has disciples, and who are disposed to hear me. The people of every class, and even those who till late at night are in the shops, early in the morning come to the streets. My mission is not so much in the churches as in the streets. I have also good brethren who help me, and among them there is