I. INTRODUCTION

In this chapter we will discuss the use of multiple-valued functions in the theory of information retrieval. In particular, we will consider the use of multiple-valued functions to represent the relationships between documents and queries. We will also discuss the use of multiple-valued functions to represent the relationships between terms and documents.

II. MULTIPLE-VALUED FUNCTIONS

A multiple-valued function is a function that maps a single input to a set of outputs. For example, the function f(x) = {x, x + 1} is a multiple-valued function. If we input the value 2 into this function, we get the output set {2, 3}.

Multiple-valued functions can be used to represent a variety of relationships. For example, we can use a multiple-valued function to represent the relationship between a document and the terms that it contains. In this case, the function would map the document to the set of terms that it contains.

III. REPRESENTING DOCUMENT-QUERY RELATIONSHIPS

One way to represent the relationship between a document and a query is to use a multiple-valued function. This function would map the document to the set of queries that it is relevant to.

For example, consider the following document:

"The cat sat on the mat."

This document is relevant to the following queries:

* "cat"
* "mat"
* "cat sat on mat"

We can represent this relationship using the following multiple-valued function:

f(document) = {"cat", "mat", "cat sat on mat"}

IV. REPRESENTING TERM-DOCUMENT RELATIONSHIPS

We can also use multiple-valued functions to represent the relationship between terms and documents. In this case, the function would map the term to the set of documents that it appears in.

For example, consider the following term:

"cat"

This term appears in the following documents:

* "The cat sat on the mat."
* "The cat is sleeping."

We can represent this relationship using the following multiple-valued function:

f(term) = {"The cat sat on the mat.", "The cat is sleeping."}

V. CONCLUSION

Multiple-valued functions can be used to represent a variety of relationships in information retrieval. In particular, they can be used to represent the relationships between documents and queries, and between terms and documents.