in this way. If a certain number of seeds are put into a flask containing nutrient solution, the seeds will germinate and grow. But if the number of seeds is increased, the growth of the seedlings will be retarded. If the number of seeds is still further increased, the seedlings will not grow at all. This is due to the fact that the seedlings compete with each other for the available food and oxygen.

Competition also occurs between different species of plants. For example, if two different species of plants are grown together in the same pot, one species may grow more rapidly than the other and eventually crowd out the other species. This is because the more rapidly growing species is able to utilize the available food and water more efficiently than the other species.

Competition also occurs between animals. For example, if two different species of birds are competing for the same food supply, the more efficient species will be able to obtain more food and will therefore be more likely to survive and reproduce.

Competition is an important factor in the evolution of living organisms. It helps to ensure that only the fittest individuals survive and reproduce. This process is known as natural selection.

2.3.3 Predation

Predation is the process by which one organism (the predator) kills and eats another organism (the prey). Predation is an important factor in the regulation of population size. For example, if the population of a certain species of prey animal increases, the population of its predators will also increase. This is because the predators will have more food available to them. As the population of predators increases, the population of prey animals will decrease. This is because the predators will be killing and eating more prey animals. Eventually, the population of prey animals will reach a level at which the predators can no longer support their own population. At this point, the population of predators will begin to decrease. This will allow the population of prey animals to increase again. This cycle of population growth and decline is known as a predator-prey cycle.

Predation also plays an important role in the evolution of living organisms. Predators tend to kill and eat the weakest and slowest prey animals. This leaves the stronger and faster prey animals to survive and reproduce. This process is known as natural selection.

2.3.4 Parasitism

Parasitism is the process by which one organism (the parasite) lives on or in another organism (the host) and obtains food from it. Parasites can cause a variety of problems for their hosts, including disease, malnutrition, and even death.

Parasitism is an important factor in the regulation of population size. For example, if the population of a certain species of host animal increases, the population of its parasites will also increase. This is because the parasites will have more hosts available to them. As the population of parasites increases, the population of host animals will decrease. This is because the parasites will be causing disease and death among the host animals. Eventually, the population of host animals will reach a level at which the parasites can no longer support their own population. At this point, the population of parasites will begin to decrease. This will allow the population of host animals to increase again. This cycle of population growth and decline is known as a parasite-host cycle.

Parasitism also plays an important role in the evolution of living organisms. Parasites tend to evolve to become more and more efficient at obtaining food from their hosts. This can lead to the evolution of new and more virulent strains of parasites. Hosts, in turn, evolve to become more and more resistant to parasites. This process is known as coevolution.

2.3.5 Mutualism

Mutualism is the process by which two different species of organisms live together and benefit from each other. Mutualism is an important factor in the survival of many species of organisms.

One example of mutualism is the relationship between bees and flowers. Bees obtain food from flowers in the form of nectar and pollen. Flowers, in turn, benefit from bees because the bees pollinate them. This allows the flowers to reproduce.

Another example of mutualism is the relationship between certain species of bacteria and humans. These bacteria live in the human intestine and help to digest food. The bacteria benefit from the food that they obtain from the human intestine. Humans, in turn, benefit from the bacteria because the bacteria help them to digest food.

Mutualism is an important factor in the evolution of living organisms. It allows different species of organisms to cooperate with each other and to survive in environments that they would not be able to survive in on their own.