people desire both the one and the other, and cannot yet understand the reason for which you have taken half from them. Is it not the precept of Christ that every believer should drink of the cup as well as eat of the bread? Look to the Gospels, to the Acts of the Apostles, to the ancient history of the Church, and you will find that this is so. You will find that the people always received both, and that it is only since your cup has been taken away from them that you have begun to refuse it, as if you yourselves had a better right than the people to the institution which Christ left. "Yes," you say, "but we take it together, as the whole is to be taken." Yes! only you carry to His institution, which you teach, your performance, contrary to His will, the people remaining alien to you, that you, not fulfilling in the exercise of the ministry all that the faith requires, change the practice, not deceive them in anything.

They are willing to confide in you as regards the outward wants of the Church, in the office of command. But instead of this you think of nothing but to refine the appetite, to make light, refine, to render easy, and to burden with that yoke of Christ, which He made so heavy and insupportable that the people refuse to bear it. Something very different from indulgences and benefices is needed to attract the people. No longer test by any pleasure but to people, and lies are the present day factions. The Christian people desire from us, as ministers of its Church, such as the Apostles presented, announced by Jesus Christ, the Word of our faith. If it was such as is written in the sacred Books of Life, such as it was Bishop of Rome, were to give, which are the people, you would then see how they would follow you! But it must be, compels translated into their own language, so that they may comprehend it. Give them the Bible, the text of the Evangelists and the Apostles wrote for the people; it is the testament of God which you cannot take from them. It is not only for the priests! It is the people that which is their own; it is the heritage of a God who left His people the heirs of His holy Word, is the Grealier of which faith will be granted, and to the belief of which