RELIGIOUS FREEDOM.—LETTER III.—CIRCOLO POPOLARE. 19

DR. ACHILLI TO SIR CULLING EARDLEY.

Rome, April 3, 1849.

MY DEAR SIR CULLING,

I take advantage of a disengaged moment of this day, to write you another letter. I am every day occupied with my work from early in the morning till late in the evening; and I am very glad thus to employ every hour of the day for the great work which the Lord has confided to me, and I am the more rejoiced, because I see the Word of God received with a spirit of religious investigation by all, and especially by the people. The Holy Scriptures read by many, and by the people, consecutively, are arranging in many parts the evil mist of political agitation. I have given the Bible to several Deputies of the Assembly, who have received it as a most precious gift. I am waiting for the completion of the printing of the New Testament, which is now being published in Rome, in order to spread it about among all classes.

In support of the new order of things, three meetings of the Circolo Popolare—the Popular Club—instituted [Dr. Achilli then states, at some length,] that at evening prayer, the association recognised by a resolution, the perpetual Lordship and authority over itself, of our blessed Lord. This expression of feeling will be the better understood, when it is remembered that it is usual in Roman Catholic countries to place associations of the people under the special patronage of the Virgin Mary or of one of the Saints. The present Pope Pius IX. was publicly invoked as patron of the Circolo Popolare. An additional circumstance has added importance to this act of the Circolo. During the late troubles, the enemies of the Roman States, and the adversaries of the Pope, made it their object to spread abroad the opinion, that the Circolo was an anti-religious association. It is now evident that the Circolo is not only not anti-religious, but that it is essentially religious.

One observed on that occasion, speaking of the late events: "That we must be also Christians, if we would deserve liberty; that, liberty being a gift of God, He will not give it, unless we ask it in prayer, and through the