MEASURES IN PARIS—VISITORS ANNOUNCED IN PRISON. 139

my increasing faith in the protection of Him who can do everything independently of men, I began to reckon on my liberation as an approaching event, and I remember writing a letter to my dear wife, in which I spoke of it as certain.

On the morning of December 24—a day usually consecrated in Rome to good wishes and congratulations—two gentlemen came to my prison, and announced themselves as visitors. They were Dr. Marocco and another person whom the French General, to allow me to have free communication with a certain Mr. Blanchi, who was in another prison, had sent with a permission, denied to every other, to converse with me, as I desired, on the subject. The good canon, not knowing, as I did, who the parties were who had recourse to such endeavours, persuaded me that they were really two of my friends, who had by great exertions succeeded in obtaining what had been granted to no one else. But I was not deceived. The more so, when I knew the next day that the Adjutant of the fort, a devoted friend of the priests, had asked and obtained from the Cardinals and the French General, standing between, either as a confirmation of the order, or to free themselves from all responsibility, that the two visitors should have permission to see me. The authorities allowed the two strangers to engage and compromise the French authorities in a matter altogether in their own interest. My fellow-prisoners, with whom I communicated my doubts, fully agreed with me. Eight days elapsed, and Dr. Marocco, announced with so great interest, had not yet appeared.

On December 31, I was asked for by two persons, who announced themselves as visitors, and at this expected visit, though made by fellow-prisoners and by myself constantly an object of laughter, I felt my heart beat more quickly. I rose from the purple tippet, and another person opened, and announced themselves as "visitors." The door opened, and in came a man, in fact, a Monsignore, whom I recognised from his purple tippet, and another person, both strangers to me. They received me with great gravity, and, after having looked at me from head to foot, made me a signal