MILITARY TRIBUNAL—DR. ACHILLI AT LIBERTY. 147

di Marmo, the Piazza del Collegio Romano, and walked through the Corso, disguised as I was. I changed my dress at ———, where money was prepared for me. A carriage with post-horses was speedily ready, and a passport. At seven, p.m., I passed the walls of Rome, “blessing the Lord and that Church, which will one day be an example to all infant Churches, so that it may again be said of the Romans, that ‘their faith is spoken of throughout the whole world.’” In six hours I arrived at Civita Vecchia, rested till daylight, presented several letters, and embarked on board a steamer of war. The whole of that day (20th) I passed in the port, engaged in thanking my God, and in praising him for the protection he had afforded me. I wrote a farewell letter to the brethren in Rome, which I got a person to post. The next day we sailed for Toulon, but through excellent friends at Marseilles, and the French admiral, I stopped, however, a day at Lyons, to embrace our excellent friend, M. Fisch, where I was unable to remain. I went to Marseilles, and there the other brethren, who felt as if they could not bless and thank the Lord enough for my unexpected liberation. Oh! what enjoyments has the Christian life, even on this earth, in my case. What I have suffered is now sweet and delightful to my spirit; it is to my body like a dream, but a reality to my faith. What a true interest we have in serving the Lord! I need not tell you the exultation of our beloved brethren in Paris. Already we have held many prayer-meetings to thank my first and true Deliverer. But I have never set forth the gratitude which, under God, I owe to the dear brethren of the Evangelical Alliance, who hoped indeed for an example of the crucifying of Christians, but not for the triumph of the Gospel. May the Lord recompense you through his grace in the great day of account! The Lord bless you all, my beloved friends, and children of God, who love the brethren, and whose charity of religion, the love of the brethren, it was that led you to exert yourselves in my behalf. Of such kindness