Will they interfere again another time? Or, if they do, will they be able to extinguish the flame?

Regard not who it is who gives you these suggestions. I am less hostile to you than you think. Nay, I protest to you that I have no hostility in my heart except for your doctrine and for your policy. I have none for yourself, whom I regard with religious affection, and for whom I desire the holy light of God in order to your repentance and that of your brethren.

Cesena, January 15, 1542.

LETTER II.

TO GREGORY XVI.

GIACINTO ACHILLI, Bishop and Sovereign of Rome, Catholic Minister of the Italian Church.

It is not party-spirit, it is not a craving to contend with you, but the love of truth, the interests of religion and of the charity of the Gospel, which induce me to write to you again. In the Church of Jesus Christ it has ever been the custom for the elders to treat with the bishops upon the most important matters. Thus Jerome did with Damasus, and Bernard with Eugenius.

I do not set myself up as a judge. I only wish to be a truthful witness in a cause where there are thousands of accusers. The issue lies between you and the Church—that is, between you and the whole company of the faithful, to which it is your duty to be subordinate. It is the subject which necessitates, the parties who impose upon me, the part I act. No question of heresiarch against the Church is agitated, only a question against the individual who sits upon the throne of the Roman Church. The faith of the Catholic Church is as it ever was, and the subject of the present controversy is not a dogma, but a fact. The question is, whether the faith of the Church is in harmony with your policy, and whether you are the true representative of the Church of Jesus Christ. This is the question which I propose to you, to which you, to whom it is addressed, are bound to give an answer. You are free to follow whichever course you please; but I implore you, for the sake of your own soul, for the sake of the flock which God has entrusted to you, not to turn a deaf ear to the voice of truth. If you are in the right, you will have the satisfaction of having silenced the voice of calumny; if you are in the wrong, you will have the opportunity of retracing your steps. I am not your enemy, but your brother, and I am ready to render you any service which you may require of me. If you will openly render that solemn testimony which others deny, I will be the first to proclaim it to the world.