given us a spirit of fear; " but of strength, and of love, and of a sound mind." "Therefore," I must not be ashamed of the testimony of our Lord." " I know in whom I have believed, and I am persuaded that He is able to keep that which I have committed unto Him against that day." I therefore " keep the form of sound words which I have heard, in faith and love which is in Christ Jesus." " I keep that good thing which was com- mitted unto me by the Holy Ghost, which dwelleth in me." I profess before God and the Lord Jesus Christ, " to preach the word, to be instant in season and out of season, to reprove, rebuke, exhort with all long-suffering and doctrine." I purpose to be vigilant in everything, " to endure afflictions, to do the work of an evangelist, to make full proof of my ministry."

Such being my office, such my obligations, here I stand before you, Holy Fathers, studying to show myself approved of God, a workman not needing to be ashamed, rightly dividing the Word of Truth." I know that the elders who have per- formed the duties of ruling should be " counted worthy of double honour, especially those who labour in the Word and in doctrine." You are the elder to whom our recently constituted diocese of Erie, in the United States, has been committed. You are charged with the various offices of that diocese, which are amongst us committed to you by other elders, who divide amongst them the various offices of the Church, or who are bishops, or chief pastors, or, as we say, metropolitans. It is your duty, therefore, to " take heed to all the flock over which the Holy Ghost hath made you overseers, to feed the Church of God, which He hath purchased with His own blood." The responsibility of feeding that portion of the flock of Christ, which has been committed to you, is very great. You have to strengthen the weak, to heal the sick, to bind up the broken, to bring again that which was driven away, and to seek that which was lost. You have to watch over your clergy, to examine them, to ordain them, to send them forth to preach the Gospel of Christ, and to keep them to the pure faith of the religion of Jesus Christ, and to the primitive order of the Church. You have to recall those who have gone astray from the faith, to admonish them, to reprove them, to warn them, to separate them from the communion of the Church, if they will not hear the Church, and to cast them out, if they continue obstinate, taking away out of the good wheat that which is an offense, separating thus the evil admixture of tares, in order to give to the Christian people the nourishment of faith, and of salvation. Your brethren look up to you in this affair, which ought to be